##Section 1 

Putting it All Together

when you request a website, your computer needs to know the server's IP address it needs to talk to; for this, it uses DNS. Your computer then talks to the web server using 
a special set of commands called the HTTP protocol; the webserver then returns HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Images, etc., which your browser then uses to correctly format and 
display the website to you.

##Section 2 

Other Components

Load Balancer

A load balancer can be summed up as a traffic divider for high volume websites. The load balamcer will take the server with the lowest traffic and direct the client to it 
therefore reducing the overall load on the servers.
The load balncer also does periodic checkups on servers called health checks to ee whether the server work fine or not.

CDN

A content delivery network is a great resource for cutting down traffic to a website by allowing the user to host static files such as JS, CSS, Images, Videos to host them
across servers all over the world. When a user requests a file the CDN finds the closest physical server to the user instead of the server being all over the world.

Databases

Webservers communicate with databases to store information for the user. They are used to store and recall data. The range from simple
text databases to complex clusters of multiple servers providing speed and resilience.

WAF

A Web Application Fireawall sits between the host and client. its primary purpose is to protect the webserver from hacking or dos attacks. it anlyses the request 
and determines whether the request is from a person or a bot. It can block request for good if it suspects that the request is malicious.

##Section 3

How a Web Server Works

A web server is software that stores website files and delivers them to users' browsers. It uses the HTTP protocol to handle requests for content like images, HTML, 
and other files. Common examples of web server software include Apache and Nginx.

##Section 4

The Quiz

In this practicl we laid out the format from when the user requests the website to the browser rendering the website step by step getting into detail.
