##Section 1

Accessing Your Linux Machine Using SSH (Deploy)

What is SSH & how does it work?
SSH stands for Secure Shell. It is a protocol between devices in an encrypted form. Any input you send in a human-readable format will be encrypted by the SSH until 
It reaches its intended location

SSH allows us to remotely execute commands on another device remotely.
Any data sent between the devices is encrypted when it is sent over a network such as the Internet

Deploying the TryHackMe AttackBox

We initialised the attack box here to start the practical.

Using SSH to Log in to Your Linux Machine

Here, we used an SSH script to log in through the username and IP address of the machine, as follows: ssh @tryhackme 10.10.154.231.

##Section 2 

Introduction to Flags and Switches

The ls method in Linux displays all the contents of the current directory except the hidden ones. To open all the contents of a directory, we use the ls -a, where the a 
stands for --all. And to list all the commands of Linux we use the ls --help method to retrieve all the commands.

##Section 3

Filesystem Interaction continued

Command	  Full Name	  Purpose
touch	  touch	  Create file
mkdir	  make directory Create a folder
cp	    copy	    Copy a file or folder
mv	    move	    Move a file or folder
rm	    remove	  Remove a file or folder
file	  file	    Determine the type of a file

##Section 3

Permissions 101

The ls -lh command displays the read, write and execute for a user.

Briefly: The Differences Between Users & Groups

In Linux whilst the user technically owns a file but they can make it accessible by everyone.

Switching Between Users

To switch users in linux we use the su command which switches the user by asking the password in the terminal then granting access.

##Section 4

Common Directories

/etc
The etc folder (short for etcetera) is a commonplace location to store system files that are used by your operating system. 

/var
The "/var" directory, with "var" being short for variable data,  is one of the main root folders found on a Linux install. 
This folder stores data that is frequently accessed or written by services or applications running on the system

/root
the /root folder is actually the home for the "root" system user.

/tmp
Short for "temporary", the /tmp directory is volatile and is used to store data that is only needed to be accessed once or twice.

##Section5

Conclusion & Summaries

How to connect to a Linux machine remotely using SSH
Advancing your use of commands by providing flags, switches and where you can go to learn about these for each command (man pages)
Some more commands that you'll frequently be using to interact with the filesystem and its contents
A brief introduction to file permissions & switching users
A summary paragraph of the important root directories on a Ubuntu Linux install and how we may be able to use the data stored within these.
