**Section 1

Introduction to Port Forwarding

Port forwarding is an essential component in connecting applications and services to the Internet. Without port forwarding, applications and services such as web servers 
are only available to devices within the same direct network.

If a local site is wanted to be accessible on the internet, Port forwarding should be implemeted at the router to connect the site to the internet.

**Section 2

Firewalls 101

A firewall is a device in a network usually used for determining. Where is the traffic coming from, where is it going to, which port is it going to and whaprotocol is
the traffic using

Usually with a  predetermined set of instructions to automate the firewall system.
And they are divided into two primary types
Stateful and stateless

**Section 3 

Practical Firewall

In this excercise we had to configure the firewall to stop malicious attacks from a specific IP address and let othe traffic pass through.

**Section 4

VPN Basics

A Virtual Private Network (or VPN for short) is a technology that allows devices on separate networks to communicate securely by creating a dedicated path 
between each other over the Internet (known as a tunnel). Devices connected within this tunnel form their own private network.

VPN Technology	Description
PPP	
This technology is used by PPTP (explained below) to allow for authentication and provide encryption of data. VPNs work by using a private key and public certificate (similar to SSH). A private key & certificate must match for you to connect.

This technology is not capable of leaving a network by itself (non-routable).

PPTP	
The Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) is the technology that allows the data from PPP to travel and leave a network. 

PPTP is very easy to set up and is supported by most devices. It is, however, weakly encrypted in comparison to alternatives.

IPSec	
Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) encrypts data using the existing Internet Protocol (IP) framework.

IPSec is difficult to set up in comparison to alternatives; however, if successful, it boasts strong encryption and is also supported on many devices.

**Section 5

LAN Networking Devices

What is a Router?
It's a router's job to connect networks and pass data between them. It does this by using routing (hence the name router!).
 
Routing is the label given to the process of data travelling across networks. Routing involves creating a path between networks so that this data can be 
successfully delivered. Routers operate at Layer 3 of the OSI model. They often feature an interactive interface (such as a website or a console) that allows 
an administrator to configure various rules such as port forwarding or firewalling.

When transferring data routers decide on the most optimal route by asking these questions

- What path is the shortest?

- What path is the most reliable?

- Which path has the faster medium (e.g. copper or fibre)?

What is a Switch?

A switch is a dedicated networking device responsible for providing a means of connecting to multiple devices. Switches can facilitate many devices 
(from 3 to 63) using Ethernet cables.

Switches can operate at both layer 2 and layer 3 of the OSI model. However, these are exclusive in the sense that Layer 2 switches cannot operate at layer 3.

**Section 6

Practical - Network Simulator

In this excercise we had to retrieve a flag by sending TCP packets from computer 1 to computer 3 From computer 1 -> Switch -> Router -> Switch2 -> Computer 3
