##Section 1 

Windows Updates.

Purpose:
    Microsoft service delivering security updates, feature enhancements, and patches for Windows and other Microsoft products (e.g., Microsoft Defender).

Release Schedule:
    Patch Tuesday – 2nd Tuesday of each month.
    Urgent updates may be released immediately outside this schedule.

Access:
    Settings → Windows Update.

Run dialog / CMD:
    control /name Microsoft.WindowsUpdate


Notes:
    Some systems may have Windows Update settings managed.
Updates may require a restart; in Windows 10+, they can be set to a later date but not skipped.

Security Importance:
    Updates protect against vulnerabilities Microsoft enforces installation to maintain system security.

##Section 2

Windows Security.

Purpose: 
    Central hub for managing Windows’ built-in protection tools for device and data security.

Access:
    Settings → Windows Security.

Protection Areas:
    Virus & threat protection: Antivirus and malware protection.
    Firewall & network protection: Monitors and controls network access.
    App & browser control: Manages app execution and browser-based threats.
    Device security: Hardware-based security features.

Status Icons:
    Green: Fully protected, no actions needed.
    Yellow: Recommendations to review.
    Red: Immediate attention required.

##Section 3

Virus & Threat Protection.

1. Current threats

  Scan options:
    Quick scan: Common threat locations.
    Full scan: All files/programs (1hr+).
    Custom scan: Specific files/folders.

  Threat history:
    Last scan: Auto scans by Defender.
    Quarantined threats: Isolated, blocked.
    Allowed threats: Manually permitted (use only if 100% sure).

  2. Virus & threat protection settings
    Real-time protection: Blocks active malware.
    Cloud-delivered protection: Latest threat data from cloud.
    Automatic sample submission: Sends suspect files to Microsoft.
    Controlled folder access: Stops unauthorized file changes.
    Exclusions: Skips scanning specified items (risky).
    Notifications: Alerts about security status.

  3. Updates
    Check for updates Manually update definitions.

  4. Ransomware protection
    Requires Controlled folder access + Real-time protection.

Tip: Right-click any file/folder → Scan with Microsoft Defender for an on-demand check.

##Section 4

Firewall & Network Protection.

Function: Controls what data is allowed in/out through device ports (like a security guard checking IDs).

Profiles:
    Domain: Used when connected to an authenticated corporate domain.
    Private: For trusted home/private networks.
    Public: Default for untrusted networks (cafes, airports).

Profile Options:
    Turn firewall on/off.
    Block all incoming connections (stricter).

Key Points:
    Keep Windows Defender Firewall enabled unless you fully understand the risks.
    You can allow specific apps through (Private/Public).
Advanced settings (WF.msc) are for experienced users—follow Microsoft best practices.

##Section 5 

App & Browser Control

Microsoft Defender SmartScreen:
    Blocks phishing/malware sites.
    Warns before running suspicious apps/files.
    Checks downloads for potential threats.

Check Apps and Files: Scans unrecognized items from the web before they run.

Exploit Protection:
    Built-in defense against common attack methods.

Best Practice:
    Leave defaults ON unless you know exactly what you’re changing—tweaks here can weaken protection.

##Section 6

Device Security

Core Isolation / Memory Integrity
    Blocks malicious code from getting into critical system processes.
    Keep it ON unless you have a real reason to disable.

Security Processor (TPM)
    A hardware chip that stores encryption keys and handles cryptographic tasks securely.
    Helps with features such as BitLocker, Windows Hello, and Secure Boot.
    Tamper-resistant—malware can’t mess with it.

Rule: These are low-level protections. If you turn them off without knowing exactly why, you’re asking for trouble.

##Section 7

BitLocker

BitLocker = full-disk encryption.
Purpose: Protects your data if your PC is lost, stolen, or disposed of.
Best setup: Use with a TPM 1.2+ chip for stronger security and tamper detection.
Function: Encrypts the entire drive so data is unreadable without proper authentication.
Bottom line: Without the key or TPM authorization, your data is useless to anyone else.

##Section 8

Volume Shadow Copy Service.

VSS = Windows’ built-in snapshot system.
Purpose: Creates point-in-time copies of files/drives for backup and restore.
Storage: Saved in the hidden System Volume Information folder.
Uses: Restore points, system restore, quick recovery from mistakes or bad updates.
Security risk: Ransomware often deletes these snapshots to block recovery so offline/off-site backups are essential.
Key takeaway: VSS is great for convenience restores, but never your only backup plan

